[DOCS-9644] Standalone Error Tracking for Mobile (#26569)
DataDog/documentation: content/en/real_user_monitoring/mobile_and_tv_monitoring/setup/reactnative.md

---
## Overview

> This page describes how to instrument your applications for both [Real User Monitoring (RUM)][1] or [Error Tracking][2] with the React Native SDK. You can follow the steps below to instrument your applications for RUM (includes Error Tracking), or Error Tracking if you have purchased it as a standalone product.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This page describes how to instrument your applications for both [Real User Monitoring (RUM)][1] and [Error Tracking][2] with the React Native SDK. You can follow the steps below to instrument your applications for RUM (includes Error Tracking) or Error Tracking if you have purchased it as a standalone product.
```

### Specify application details in the UI

{{< tabs >}}
{{% tab "RUM" %}}

1. In Datadog, navigate to [**Digital Experience** > **Add an Application**][1].
2. Choose `react-native` as the application type.
3. Provide an application name to generate a unique Datadog application ID and client token.

> 4. To disable automatic user data collection for either client IP or geolocation data, uncheck the boxes for those settings.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
4. To disable automatic user data collection for client IP or geolocation data, uncheck the boxes for those settings.
```

   {{< img src="real_user_monitoring/react_native/reactnative_setup.png" alt="Create a RUM application for React Native in Datadog" style="width:90%;">}}

[1]: https://app.datadoghq.com/rum/application/create

{{% /tab %}}
{{% tab "Error Tracking" %}}

1. In Datadog, navigate to [**Error Tracking** > **Settings** > **Browser and Mobile** > **Add an Application**][1].
2. Choose `react-native` as the application type.
3. Provide an application name to generate a unique Datadog application ID and client token.

> 4. To disable automatic user data collection for either client IP or geolocation data, uncheck the boxes for those settings.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
4. To disable automatic user data collection for client IP or geolocation data, uncheck the boxes for those settings.
```

   {{< img src="real_user_monitoring/error_tracking/mobile-new-application.png" alt="Create an application for React Native in Datadog" style="width:90%;">}}

[1]: https://app.datadoghq.com/error-tracking/settings/setup/client/

{{% /tab %}}
{{< /tabs >}}

> To ensure the safety of your data, you must use a client token. If you used only [Datadog API keys][5] to configure the `@datadog/mobile-react-native` library, they would be exposed client-side in the React Native application's code.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To ensure the safety of your data, you must use a client token. If you use only [Datadog API keys][5] to configure the `@datadog/mobile-react-native` library, they are exposed client-side in the React Native application's code.
```

        </DatadogProvider>
    );
}
// Once the Datadog React Native SDK for RUM is initialized, you need to setup view tracking to be able to see data in a dashboard
```

{{< /site-region >}}

### Sample RUM sessions

<div class="alert alert-warning">Configuring the session sample rate does not apply to Error Tracking.</div>

> To control the data your application sends to Datadog RUM, you can specify a sampling rate for RUM sessions while [initializing the RUM React Native SDK][7] as a percentage between 0 and 100. You can specify the rate with the `config.sessionSamplingRate` parameter.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To control the data your application sends to Datadog RUM, you can specify a sampling rate for RUM sessions while [initializing the RUM React Native SDK][7]. You can specify the rate with the `config.sessionSamplingRate` parameter as a percentage between 0 and 100.
```

### Track view navigation

> Because React Native offers a wide range of libraries to create screen navigation, only manual view tracking is supported by default. To see RUM/Error tracking sessions populate in Datadog, you need to implement view tracking.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Because React Native offers a wide range of libraries to create screen navigation, only manual view tracking is supported by default. To see RUM or Error tracking sessions populate in Datadog, you need to implement view tracking.
```

end
```

**Note**: This solution comes from this [StackOverflow][16] post.

## Further Reading

{{< partial name="whats-next/whats-next.html" >}}

> [1]:/real_user_monitoring/

Author: ```suggestion
[1]: /real_user_monitoring/
```
